mat2jade
By Robin Roche, University of Technology of Belfort-Montbéliard, France


CONCEPT

This project is a basic interface between JADE agents and Matlab sugin TCP/IP. 


REQUIREMENTS


To use mat2jade, you need:
- Matlab (tested with R2011b), with the Instrument Control Toolbox. This toolbox is only used for the TCP functions. If you find another way to use TCP communication with Matlab, you may not need this toolbox.
- JADE (tested with 4.0) libraries. 


SETUP

I assume you already have Matlab installed.

1. Get the mat2jade files.
2. Import them to your favorite IDE, like Eclipse.
3. Get JADE jar libraries (see link below).
4. Include the libraries to the mat2jade project.
6. Run the JADE program with the Launcher class.
7. In Matlab, open the tcpTest.m file and run it.
8. The communication should then be established and data should be exchanged. You should see things displaying in the console. If not, you have a problem somewhere.

When running the test, you should see in the java console:
Agent started
Server connection initiated
Message sent to Matlab: 0
Message received from Matlab: 0
Message sent to Matlab: 1
Message received from Matlab: 1
etc.

And in Matlab:
Connection established
Message from JADE:
0
Message from JADE:
1
Message from JADE:
2
etc.


FILES

- In JADE:
LauncheJade.java: A simple class that runs JADE and the test agent.
TcpTestAgent.java: An agent that exchanges data with Matlab through TCP.

- In Matlab:
tcpTest.m: The main file for the Matlab side.
tcp_send_function.m: A function that sends data through TCP.
tcp_receive_function.m: A function that receives data through TCP. 


USING mat2jade

These file are free to use.
I only ask you to cite one of my papers if you use it, especially for research: http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/DEXA.2012.9
No extensive testing has been done, so use it at your own risk. 
If you find bugs, errors, etc., or want to contribute, please let me know.


LINKS

JADE: http://jade.tilab.com
Matlab: http://www.mathworks.com
 
